---
title: 'Day 550: Reality distortion field.'
date: 2018-07-23 14:13:00 -07:00
file: "/uploads/Day-550a.mp3"
post: Day 550
duration: '00:06:13'
length: 7391936
---

**Monday, July 23, 2018**

**Subscribe:** [Get the Daily Update in your inbox for free.](https://whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com/subscribe/)

1/ The Justice Department released a previously classified application to wiretap Carter Page showing that "the FBI believes Page has been the subject of targeted recruitment by the Russian government" to "undermine and influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election."

2/ Trump – providing no evidence – claimed the released documents prove the Justice Department and FBI "mislead the courts" as a "pretext to SPY on the Trump Team."

3/ Trump tweeted that Russia's interference in the 2016 election was "all a big hoax."

4/ Trump renewed his call to end the Robert Mueller investigation, tweet-claiming that it's "totally conflicted and discredited."

5/ Carter Page acknowledged working as "an informal adviser to the staff of the Kremlin" in a 2013 letter.

6/ A federal judge granted immunity to five witnesses expected to testify in the Paul Manafort trial.

7/ Russia's foreign minister told Mike Pompeo that the charges against Maria Butina were "fabricated" and she should be released.

8/ In an all-caps tweet, Trump threatened Iran with "CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED."

poll/ 52% of voters disapprove of Trump while 45% approve.

poll/ 56% of voters disapprove of Trump doubting the U.S. intelligence community's conclusions that Russia tried to influence the 2016 election.

poll/ 50% of Americans disapprove of Trump's handling of his meeting with Putin, while 33% approve.

✏️ **NOTABLES.**

* Trump suggested that there could be consequences for Michael Cohen for recording a discussion they had two months before the 2016 election about paying a former Playboy model who said she had an affair with him.

* Trump's lawyers, however, waived his attorney-client privilege regarding the taped conversation he had with Michael Cohen.

* At least 12 audio tapes from Cohen were released to federal investigators and prosecutors.

* Robert Mueller wants to subpoena Kristin Davis, a former prostitution mogul who went to prison after being tied to former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer.

* Brett Kavanaugh suggested several years ago that the unanimous SCOTUS decision that forced Richard Nixon to turn over the Watergate tapes may have been wrongly decided.

* Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke dismissed the benefits of national monuments, instead focusing on the value of logging, ranching and energy development that could be unlocked if their designations were changed.

* John Kelly signed off on an effort to remove three officials who were loyal to Scott Pruitt after the EPA secretary resigned earlier this month.

* Trump has complained privately about the lack of progress on North Korea, despite publicly declaring that the country is no longer a nuclear threat and that the crises had been "largely solved."

* Trump is considering revoking the security clearances of James Comey, former CIA Director John Brennan, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, and other Obama-era national security officials who have criticized him.

**[Become a supporting member today!](https://whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com/membership/?utm_source=2017\+Donors&utm_campaign=8dccd905d9-&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_3bd36f654c-8dccd905d9-169730397)**

*Visit [www.whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com](www.whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com) for more news and headlines, brought to you by [Matt Kiser](https://twitter.com/Matt_Kiser). The [WTFJHT Podcast](https://whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com/podcasts/) is narrated and produced by [Joe Amditis](https://twitter.com/jsamditis).*