---
title: Day 783
date: 2019-03-13 04:36:00 -07:00
---

1. **Paul Manafort will face sentencing in Washington, D.C. today for crimes related to unregistered foreign lobbying efforts and witness tampering.** This will be Manafort's second sentencing hearing after he was sentenced last week to 47 months in prison by a Virginia court. The federal judge in today's hearing could sentence Manafort to up to 10 years in prison for his crimes, which are unrelated to his time as manager of the Trump campaign. His financial crimes were committed between 2006 and 2015, but the witness tampering charge is related to the contacts he made in 2017 after he was indicted. Judge Amy Berman Jackson will also decide today whether Manafort's second sentence should be served concurrently or consecutively with the sentence Manafort received last week. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/facing-47-months-jail-virginia-case-paul-manafort/story?id=61631816))

2. **Michael Cohen's attorney sent a letter to Congress in an attempt to clarify parts of Cohen's testimony, during which he claimed that he never asked Trump for a pardon.** The letter from Lanny Davis said that even though Cohen's statements were true, they could have been clearer. "In retrospect," the letter reads, "while the sentence could have been clearer regarding the time frames, the sentence is true, and Mr. Cohen stands by his statement." The letter continues: "At no time did Mr. Cohen personally ask President Trump for a pardon or did the President offer Mr. Cohen the same." ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/03/12/politics/michael-cohen-attorney-pardon-testimony/index.html))

3. **Robert Mueller says Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn has all but completed his cooperation agreement with the special counsel's Russia investigation.** Flynn is still helping with another federal probe, according to a court filing, and attorneys for both parties cited his ongoing cooperation in that matter as justification for a delay in Flynn's sentencing. The other investigation is brought by the Eastern District of Virginia against Flynn's former business partner for unregistered lobbying on behalf of Turkey. "While the defendant remains in a position to cooperate with law enforcement authorities, and could testify in the EDVA case should it proceed to trial," Mueller's latest filing reads, "in the government’s view his cooperation is otherwise complete." ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia-flynn-idUSKBN1QU053))

4. **House Speaker Nancy Pelosi revoked Mike Pence's bonus office on the first floor of the U.S. Capitol building**, which was awarded to Pence by Paul Ryan shortly after Trump was inaugurated in 2017. Pence rarely used the office, but it served as a symbolic gesture of deference to the White House while the House was under Republican control. But the placard above the office was quietly removed recently and a House Democratic aide confirmed that the office will be reassigned. ([NPR](https://www.npr.org/2019/03/12/702577175/speaker-pelosi-revokes-mike-pences-house-office-space))