---
title: Day 902
date: 2019-07-10 05:09:00 -07:00
---

1. **Migrant children at an overcrowded detention facility in Arizona report being sexually assaulted and facing retaliation for protests at the hands of guards**, according to dozens of first-hand accounts collected by government case managers. Guards removed sleeping mats from the cells of children who complained about the taste of the water and food they were given. An officer put his hands inside the bra of a 15-year-old from Honduras, pulled down her underwear and groped her as part of a "routine" pat down in front of other immigrants and officers. The reports describe unsanitary and overcrowded conditions similar to detention facilities in Texas, but reports from the station in Yuma, Arizona go even further by alleging abuse and other misconduct by Customs and Border Patrol officers. ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/immigration/migrant-kids-overcrowded-arizona-border-station-allege-sex-assault-retaliation-n1027886))

2. **Immigration and Customs Enforcement has started using three new for-profit immigration detention centers**, despite instructions from Congress to reduce the number of people in detention. The agency is now detaining migrants at a Mississippi prison operated by CoreCivic, a Louisiana jail run by LaSalle Corrections, and the South Louisiana ICE Processing Center run by GEO Group in Basile. A spokesman for ICE confirmed that all three facilities started housing immigrant detainees at the end of last month. ([Mother Jones](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2019/07/ice-just-quietly-opened-three-new-detention-centers-flouting-congress-limits/))

3. **The Justice Department is attempting to discourage two of Robert Mueller's deputies from testifying before Congress**. Lawmakers previously reached an agreement with the DOJ to have two of Mueller's former prosecutors answer questions behind closed doors next week, but the DOJ told the House Judiciary and Intelligence committees last week that it was opposed to the testimony and that it expressed that opposition to the two former members of Mueller's team and instructed both men not to appear. It is unclear whether the DOJ's intervention will impact the prosecutors' appearances, but the move suggests that the previous agreement between Congress and the Justice Department may be in jeopardy. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/09/us/politics/mueller-testimony-justice-department.html))