---
title: Day 462
date: 2018-04-26 04:58:00 -07:00
---

1. **Michael Cohen will plead the Fifth Amendment in the lawsuit filed against Trump by Stormy Daniels**. The move will allow Cohen to avoid being deposed and potentially revealing information about the criminal investigation into hush money payments Cohen made or helped to arrange for Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal. “I will assert my 5th Amendment rights in connection with all proceedings in this case due to the ongoing criminal investigation by the F.B.I. and U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York,” Cohen said. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/25/nyregion/michael-cohen-stormy-daniels.html))

2. **Trump will personally review documents related to Cohen's case in order to prevent prosecutors or the FBI from seeing privileged information**. Trump told the federal judge overseeing the Cohen investigation that wants to review records seized earlier this month during raids on Cohen's home, office, and hotel. The judge already ruled against Trump and Cohen's original request, but she did say that she would be willing to consider their request to have a third party review the records before prosecutors or the FBI do. ([ABC News](http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-trump-personally-review-documents-cohen-case/story?id=54733796))

3. **One of the lobbyists closest to Trump is working for an ally of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad**. Brian Ballard's firm, Ballard Partners, disclosed last month that it was working with a trading company based in Dubai called ASM International General Trading LLC. ASM is affiliated with a member of Syria's wealthy Foz family, which has close ties to the Assad government. "We’re going to do more due diligence,” Ballard said. "We’re not the CIA, but if it were to turn out that there was any connection at all, we would withdraw from our representation of the Dubai trading company." Ballard's firm also represents an anti-Assad group. ([The Daily Beast](https://www.thedailybeast.com/top-trump-fundraiser-caught-working-for-assad-ally))