---
title: Day 1219
date: 2020-05-22 07:36:00 -07:00
---

1. **New guidance from the CDC estimates that roughly a third of coronavirus infections are asymptomatic**, and around 40% of coronavirus transmission occurs before people feel sick. CDC officials cautioned that those numbers are subject to change as they continue to learn more about the virus, and that the current numbers are only meant for planning and preparation purposes. The CDC also said its "best estimate" is that 0.4% of people who show symptoms and have the virus will die. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/22/health/cdc-coronavirus-estimates-symptoms-deaths/index.html))

2. **Trump said the Michigan Attorney General was "taking out her anger and stupidity" after she called him a "petulant child who refuses to follow the rules" for not wearing a mask during his recent visit to a Ford plant** even though he was explicitly asked to wear one. "Do nothing A.G. of the Great State of Michigan, Dana Nessel, should not be taking her anger and stupidity out on Ford Motor — they might get upset with you and leave the state, like so many other companies have — until I came along and brought business back to Michigan," Trump tweeted, adding: "JOBS!" ([The Hill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/499108-trump-fires-back-at-michigan-ag-after-she-calls-him-petulant-child))

3. **A study of 96,000 hospitalized coronavirus patients across six continents found those who received hydroxychloroquine had a significantly higher death rate than those who did not receive the drug**. Trump has repeatedly promoted the drug as a "game changer," and recently claimed that he has been taking the drug the last few weeks. The study also found that patients who were given hydroxychloroquine were more likely to develop a type of irregular heart rhythm, or arrhythmia, which can lead to sudden cardiac death. The study represents the largest analysis of the risks and benefits of treating coronavirus patients with antimalarial drugs to date. "It’s one thing not to have benefit, but this shows distinct harm," said a cardiologist at the Scripps Research Translational Institute. The director of preventative cardiology at Stanford said the study's findings offer "absolutely no reason for optimism that these drugs might be useful" in treating COVID-19. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/05/22/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus-study))

4. poll/ **44% of Americans approve of the job Trump is doing as president**, while 54% disapprove. Last month, Trump's approval rating was at 49%. ([Fox News](https://static.foxnews.com/foxnews.com/content/uploads/2020/05/Fox_May-17-20-2020_Complete_National_Topline_May-21-Release.pdf))

5. poll/ **39% of Americans approve of Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic**, while 60% disapprove. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/black-americans-latinos-times-died-covid-19-poll/story?id=70794789))