---
title: Day 1175
date: 2020-04-08 07:00:00 -07:00
---

1. **White House visitors have been receiving the latest coronavirus tests with a 15-minute turnaround time for results.** Every visitor who meets Trump or Pence receives the new tests, even those who feel healthy and are not exhibiting symptoms. A spokesperson for the company that manufactures the tests said they can deliver a positive result within five minutes and a negative result within 13 minutes. The new tests were approved by the FDA under an emergency authorization and company officials have not publicly disclosed their accuracy rates, which are still begin assessed as more people receive them. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-rapid-coronavirus-tests-abott/2020/04/07/98e44a76-78e9-11ea-a130-df573469f094_story.html))

2. **Trump claimed that Ivanka has personally created 15 million jobs since he took office — roughly 10% of all 152 million jobs in the United States.** Trump made the demonstrably false claim during a call about providing financial relief to small businesses. Trump claimed in November 2019 that Ivanka had "created 14 million jobs" during his tenure in the White House, but the U.S. economy only added a total of 6.2 million jobs between January 2017 and November 2019. ([Vox](vox.com/2020/4/8/21212802/trump-ivanka-10-percent-jobs-walmart-15-million))

3. poll/ **55% of Americans say the federal government has done a poor job preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic in the United States** — up nearly 8% since last week. 80% say they think the worst is yet to come, and 55% say Trump could be doing more to slow the spread. 37% say they're more concerned about the virus than they were a few days ago, while 5% say they've become less fearful in recent days. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/08/politics/cnn-poll-coronavirus-april-8/index.html))