---
title: Day 978
date: 2019-09-24 05:49:00 -07:00
---

1. **Trump ordered his chief of staff to withhold nearly $400 million in military aid for Ukraine at least a week before he called the Ukrainian president and pressured him to investigate Joe Biden's son**. Officials at the Office of Management and Budget passed the order to Pentagon officials during an interagency meeting in mid-July, explaining that Trump had "concerns" about whether or not the aid was necessary. White House officials were ordered to tell lawmakers that the delays in funding were part of an "interagency process," but were instructed to give them no additional information. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/trump-ordered-hold-on-military-aid-days-before-calling-ukrainian-president-officials-say/2019/09/23/df93a6ca-de38-11e9-8dc8-498eabc129a0_story.html))

2. **Federal prosecutors in New York rejected Trump's claim that he has "sweeping immunity" from a criminal probe while he is in office**. Trump made the claim in an attempt to block a subpoena for his tax returns, which is part of an investigation into hush-money payments made during the 2016 presidential campaign to two women who say they had affairs with Trump. Prosecutors argued in a court filing that Trump is "seeking to invent and enforce a new presidential ‘tax return privilege,’ on the theory that disclosing information in a tax return will necessarily reveal information that will somehow impede the functioning of a President." They added that Trump's claim is rendered moot by the fact that "every President since Jimmy Carter has voluntarily released his tax returns before or upon taking office," and doing so has never prevented anyone from fulfilling his obligations as president. ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/09/23/new-york-trump-tax-returns-1763041))

3. **Trump is "telling people he's mad" about how Jared Kushner's push for criminal justice reform has turned out**. Sources say Trump is "furious at Jared" because Jared has been telling him that criminal justice reform will result in more felons voting for Trump. But Trump no longer sees it as a viable issue heading into 2020. "He’s really mad that he did it," said one source. "He’s saying that he’s furious at Jared because Jared is telling him he’s going to get all these votes of all these felons." ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/09/24/trump-kushner-criminal-justice-snub-1507285))

4. **The Trump administration is threatening to withhold federal highway funding from California if the state doesn't address its decades-long backlog of state-level pollution control plans**. The move is part of the ongoing feud between the state government and the White House. EPA chief Andrew Wheeler sent a letter to state lawmakers, which states that California "has the worst air quality in the United States" and that, by law, the state must submit plans for reducing the pollution, but California has a backlog of about 130 incomplete or inactive plans dating back decades. The letter says California's failure to address the backlogged plans may lead to penalties, including the withholding of federal highway funding. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/24/climate/trump-california-climate-change.html))