---
title: Day 407
date: 2018-03-02 05:22:00 -08:00
---

1. **Counterintelligence officials are investigating the negotiations and financing surrounding one of Ivanka Trump's international business deals involving the Trump Hotel and Tower in Vancouver.** It's not clear why investigators are looking into this particular deal, but CNN says the timing of the deal could be of interest. The 616-foot tower opened in February 2017, just after Trump took office, and the Trump Organization reportedly took in more than $5 million in royalties and $21,500 in management fees from the Vancouver property. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2018/03/01/politics/ivanka-trump-fbi-investigation/index.html))

2. I**nternal documents from the Department of Interior show that the possibility of oil and gas exploration in the Bears Ears National Monument in Utah was a central concern at the agency**, even before Trump decided to remove federal protections from large portions of the land. Discussions about removing federal protections from certain sections of Bears Ears that contained oil and gas deposits began as early as March 2017, when Sen. Orrin Hatch sent an email to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke that said, in part, that adopting the new map would "resolve all known mineral conflicts" on the land. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/climate/bears-ears-national-monument.html))

3. **Jared Kushner's real estate firm reportedly made a direct appeal to Qatar's minister of finance in April 2017 for an investment in one of the company's most infamous and critically distressed properties** — the Kushners’ signature development located at 666 Fifth Avenue in New York City. A month after the deal fell through, Kushner found himself engulfed in a diplomatic confrontation in the Middle East. Kushner ended up supporting Qatar's neighbors, and the standoff culminated in what was essentially a blockade of Qatar. Kushner then went on to undermine efforts by Rex Tillerson to bring an end to the impasse. ([The Intercept](https://theintercept.com/2018/03/02/jared-kushner-real-estate-qatar-blockade/))

4. 