---
title: Day 963
date: 2019-09-09 06:39:00 -07:00
---

1. **The House Judiciary Committee will vote this week to formalize the procedures for an impeachment inquiry**. If the vote passes, a draft of the resolution shows the committee will begin to clarify its investigative authorities and lay out what due process would look like for Trump. Democrats believe the move will allow the panel to work faster and potentially acquire more information about possible obstruction of justice and abuses of power by Trump. The resolution will also mark the first recorded vote related to impeachment recorded by lawmakers, even though the committee has already informed federal courts and the public that it is currently in the midst of a full-scale impeachment inquiry. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/08/us/politics/democrats-judiciary-procedures-impeachment-trump.html))

2. **The Air Force has ordered a world-wide review of how it chooses overnight accommodations on long flights after military personnel were found to have stayed at Trump properties on multiple occasions**. In one case, air crews were found to have occasionally stayed at Trump's resort in Scotland while refueling at a nearby commercial airport. Another time, a unit of the Maine Air National Guard landed at Prestwick Airport on its way back from Qatar and stayed at Trump’s nearby luxury waterfront resort. An Air Force spokesperson said the branch is reviewing "all associated guidance" related to personnel lodging because "lodging at higher-end accommodations, even if within government rates, might be allowable but not advisable." ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/09/08/trump-resort-air-force-probe-1485447))

3. **A top official at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration warned staff not to contradict Trump**. The warning came nearly a week before the NOAA publicly backed Trump over its own scientists. Hours after Trump claimed Alabama "would most likely be hit (much) harder than anticipated" by Hurricane Dorian, NOAA staff were told to "only stick with official National Hurricane Center forecasts if questions arise from some national level social media posts which hit the news this afternoon." They were also told not to "provide any opinion" on the matter. The order was understood internally as a reference to Trump and his false statements about Dorian. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/noaa-staff-warned-in-sept-1-directive-against-contradicting-trump/2019/09/07/12a52d1a-d18f-11e9-87fa-8501a456c003_story.html))

4. poll/ **58% of Americans have confidence that stricter gun laws would reduce mass shootings, while 41% remain skeptical**. 76% think improved mental health monitoring and treatment would reduce mass shootings. 89% support background checks for gun purchases, including for sales at gun shows. 86% support "red flag" laws that allow police to take firearms away from people found by a judge to be a danger to themselves or others. ([ABC News / Washington Post](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/10-fear-mass-shooting-gun-laws-poll/story?id=65414785))