---
title: Day 1020
date: 2019-11-05 05:44:00 -08:00
---

1. **Lev Parnas plans to cooperate with subpoenas issued by House investigators as part of the impeachment inquiry into Trump**. Parnas is an indicted Ukrainian-American businessman and associate of Rudy Giuliani who has been called to testify and provide documents to congressional investigators. Parnas helped Giuliani dig up dirt on Joe Biden and his son Hunter at Trump's behest, and he has become a key figure in the impeachment inquiry. Last month, Parnas refused requests by House investigators to produce documents and testify. Since then, Parnas has hired new attorneys who say they will "will honor and not avoid the committee’s requests to the extent they are legally proper," while also "scrupulously protecting Mr. Parnas' privileges including that of the Fifth Amendment." The change in strategy reportedly  occurred after Trump denied knowing Parnas after he was arrested. "Mr. Parnas was very upset by President Trump’s plainly false statement that he did not know him," said Parnas' attorney. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-impeachment-parnas-exclusiv-idUSKBN1XE297) / [New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/nyregion/lev-parnas-giuliani-associate.html))

2. **The Senate is beginning preparations for an impeachment trial as House investigators move into the public phase of their impeachment inquiry**. There are no official articles of impeachment and the House has not yet voted to impeach Trump, but the Senate has already started making the necessary preparations for a trial, which is a significant bureaucratic and procedural lift. Senate and Supreme Court aides have been working together to decide simple things like where Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts' office will reside during the trial, while others have been brushing up on the Federalist Papers and re-watching videos of the Clinton impeachment proceedings. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/11/04/politics/senate-preparations-for-impeachment-trial/index.html))

3. **Roger Stone's trial begins today**. Stone will face charges related to his alleged efforts to exploit the Russian-hacked emails of Hillary Clinton for his own political gain. Stone is accused of lying to lawmakers about WikiLeaks, tampering with witnesses, and obstructing a House intelligence committee probe into whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia to tip the 2016 election. The indictment says a senior Trump campaign official "was directed" to contact Stone after WikiLeaks released hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee in July 2016 to find out about additional releases and "what other damaging information" WikiLeaks had "regarding the Clinton campaign." The indictment does not name the official or say who directed the outreach to Stone. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/bf3e43dc56f244bda7dd6c4308d38e1d))