---
title: Day 1302
date: 2020-08-13 06:23:00 -07:00
---

1. **Trump said the U.S. Postal Service doesn't have the funding needed to deal with increased mail-in voting in November, despite his administration's attempts to prevent USPS from receiving more federal funding.** "They don't have the money to do the universal mail-in voting. So therefore, they can't do it, I guess," Trump told reporters. "Are they going to do it even if they don't have the money?" Trump and the GOP have blocked multiple proposals to expand funding for the USPS as part of a forthcoming stimulus package. Trump has also spent months criticizing mail-in voting and claiming, without evidence, that it will lead to widespread voter fraud. ([Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/trump-usps-lacks-funds-mail-votes-opposoes-more-funding-2020-8))

2. **Trump's new postmaster general still holds a multi-million dollar stake in his former company XPO Logistics, a United States Postal Service contractor.** Newly obtained financial disclosures show Louis DeJoy holds at least $30 million in XPO holdings, likely creating a major conflict of interest. Before joining the Trump administration, DeJoy was on the board of directors at XPO, a large transportation and logistics company that does business with the Postal Service and has contracts with other U.S. government agencies, including the Department of Defense. Separately, on the same day in June 2020 that DeJoy divested large amounts of Amazon shares, he purchased stock options giving him the right to buy new shares of Amazon at a price much lower than their current market price. DeJoy and USPS have said he fully complied with ethics regulations, but ethics experts say they were shocked that officials at USPS approved the arrangement. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/12/politics/postal-service-dejoy-conflicts-amazon-trades-xpo-stake/index.html))

3. **Nancy Pelosi and 174 House Democrats signed a letter demanding that the USPS reverse operational changes made by Postmaster General Louis DeJoy**, arguing that the changes will hamper mail-in voting on Election Day. "The House is seriously concerned that you are implementing policies that accelerate the crisis at the Postal Service, including directing Post Offices to no longer treat all election mail as First Class," the letter reads. The letter warns that the changes "will cause further delays to election mail that will disenfranchise voters and put significant financial pressure on election jurisdictions." DeJoy also eliminated overtime pay for hundreds of thousands of postal workers and required that mail is kept until the next day if distribution centers are running late. He also removed or reassigned nearly two dozen postal leaders, implemented a hiring freeze, and requested "early retirement authority" for non-union employees. ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/house-democrats-demand-postal-service-chief-roll-back-changes-ahead-n1236570))

4. **A former top official at the USPS warned that recent operational changes by Postmaster General Louis Dejoy could “disenfranchise” voters.** Ronald Stroman, who stepped down earlier this year as the second in command at USPS, said the changes being implemented just months ahead of an election in which a record number of Americans are expected to vote by mail is "a high-risk proposition." ([The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/aug/13/united-states-postal-service-trump-republicans))

5. **The director of the CDC warned that the United States could have "the worst fall, from a public health perspective, we've ever had" if Americans don't follow CDC coronavirus guidelines.** Dr. Robert Redfield urged Americans to do four simple things to avoid exacerbating the crisis: "wear a mask, social distance, wash your hands and be smart about crowds." He added: "I'm not asking some of America to do it. We all gotta do it." ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/13/health/us-coronavirus-thursday/index.html))