---
title: Day 904
date: 2019-07-12 04:57:00 -07:00
---

1. **At least 18 babies under the age of two, "including nine infants under the age of one," were separated from their parents at the border and were "kept apart for 20 days to half a year,"** according to a report by the House Oversight Committee. The report provides new information about at least 2,648 children who were separated from their parents. Some were kept at Border Patrol facilities longer than the 72-hour limit and many were shuffled around to multiple government facilities. In some cases, parents were not sent to federal criminal custody as intended under the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" border policy, while others were taken into custody at first "and then returned within a day or two likely because prosecutors declined to prosecute their cases or because they were sentenced to time served for the misdemeanor of illegal entry." ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/07/12/politics/house-oversight-committee-family-separations/index.html))

2. **Trump said he will abandon his efforts to add a citizenship question to the 2020 Census and instead seek citizenship information from existing federal records**. Trump made the announcement yesterday from the Rose Garden. "We are not backing down on our effort to determine the citizenship status of the United States population," he insisted. Instead of continuing his fight over the census, Trump said he would issue an executive order instructing federal departments and agencies to provide the Census Bureau with citizenship information from their "vast" databases immediately. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/11/us/politics/census-executive-action.html))

3. **The U.S. has gone seven months without a confirmed defense chief, the longest stretch in Pentagon history**. There is also no confirmed deputy secretary of defense, and several other significant civilian and military positions at the Pentagon remain in limbo — more than at any other time in recent history. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/ce5a27679ec7442283a372d7f3b67e92))

4. **California lawmakers passed legislation mandating all presidential and state gubernatorial candidates release their tax information in order to appear on the state's ballot**. The bill passed with a 57-17 vote, and requires candidates to share their income tax returns from the last five taxable years with the California state government. The legislation also includes an "urgency clause," which allows it to take effect immediately and will force the candidates currently running for president in 2020, including Trump, to comply with the law. ([ABC7 News](https://abc7news.com/politics/ca-lawmakers-pass-bill-requiring-trump-to-release-tax-returns/5389210/) / [The Hill](https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/452757-bill-passed-by-california-lawmakers-would-require-trump))