---
title: Day 467
date: 2018-05-01 05:14:00 -07:00
---

1. **Mike Pence's physician privately warned the White House back in September that Ronny Jackson may have violated the federal privacy protections of Karen Pence and intimidated the Vice President's doctor**. The previously unreported incident is the first sign that the White House knew about Jackson's misconduct months before Trump and his staff defended Jackson's professionalism and insisted that he had been thoroughly vetted. The incident is also the first allegation of medical misconduct by Jackson, adding to a  long line of allegations against the former White House physician. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2018/04/30/politics/karen-pence-doctor-privacy-ronny-jackson/index.html))

2. **Trump allies in the House have drafted articles of impeachment against Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein**. One author of the draft articles referred to them as a "last resort." The draft articles are not expected to garner much support in Congress. The last federal official to be impeached by the House was federal Judge G. Thomas Porteous Jr., who was convicted on bribery allegations by the Senate in 2010. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-allied-house-conservatives-draft-articles-of-impeachment-against-rosenstein-as-last-resort/2018/04/30/d78af412-4c97-11e8-b725-92c89fe3ca4c_story.html?utm_term=.3dae898bc378))

3. **Robert Mueller has at least 49 questions on a wide array of subjects that he wants to ask Trump regarding his ties to Russia and alleged obstruction of the special counsel's inquiry**. The questions deal primarily with Trump's firing of James Comey and his first national security adviser, as well as his treatment of Jeff Sessions and the 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Trump campaign officials and Russians who claimed to have damaging information on Hillary Clinton. Other topics of inquiry include Trump's conversations with Michael Cohen about a real estate deal in Moscow, Jared Kushners attempts to set up a back channel to Russia, contacts Trump had with Roger Stone, and Trump's 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/30/us/politics/robert-mueller-questions-trump.html))

4. **Grammatical errors point to Trump as the source who leaked the list of Mueller's questions**. "Lawyers wouldn’t write questions this way, in my estimation," said CNN analyst and former assistant to Robert Mueller Michael Zeldin. "Some of the grammar is not even proper," he continued. "I think these are more notes that the White House has taken and then they have expanded upon the conversation to write out these as questions." ([The Hill](http://thehill.com/homenews/news/385602-muellers-former-assistant-says-grammatical-errors-prove-leaked-questions-came))