---
title: Day 593
date: 2018-09-04 04:39:00 -07:00
---

1. **Trump kicked off Labor Day by attacking a top union leader.** Trump tweeted that AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka "represented his union poorly on television this weekend." Trump added: "It is easy to see why unions are doing so poorly. A Dem!" The attack came after Trumka appeared on Fox News and criticized Trump's attempts to overhaul NAFTA, claiming that the agreement should include Canada. "The things that he's done to hurt workers outpace what he's done to help workers," Trumka said. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/trump-attacks-union-leader-labor-day-57572623))

2. **The Trump administration is rolling back worker safety regulations affecting underground mine safety inspections, offshore oil rigs, line speeds in meat processing plants, and others.** Under Obama, workplace inspections at mines had to occur before workers started their shifts, but the Trump administration said it would allow inspections to begin while miners were already working. The Interior Department is seeking to roll back regulations for offshore oil rigs that were put in place after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster, rescinding the rule that inspections of blowout preventers must only be conducted by government-approved third parties. And the Agricultural Department is considering lifting line speed requirements in hog processing plants. ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/09/03/trumps-worker-safety-regulations-protections-unions-806008))

3. **The Trump International Hotel & Tower in Chicago is being sued by the Illinois attorney general for multiple violations of clean water laws and for endangering fish and other aquatic life in the Chicago River.** The tower is one of the city's largest users of river water for its cooling systems, and is accused of failing to meet several requirements in a state permit that are intended to limit the number of fish pinned against intake screens or killed by sudden pressure and temperature changes. Building managers also failed to renew its permit and have been operating the cooling system without it for almost a year. "Trump Tower continues to take millions of gallons of water from the Chicago River every day without a permit and without any regard to how it may be impacting the river’s ecosystem," Attorney General Lisa Madigan said in a statement. "I filed my lawsuit to make sure Trump Tower cannot continue violating the law." ([Chicago Tribune](http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-met-trump-tower-chicago-river-madigan-lawsuit-20180814-story.html))