---
title: Day 742
date: 2019-01-31 05:35:00 -08:00
---

1. **Federal immigration officials at a Texas detention facility are using nasal feeding tubes to force-feed six immigrants who are on a hunger strike.** ICE says 11 detainees at an El Paso facility have been on a hunger strike, some for more than a month. Nearly 30 detainees from India and Cuba have refused to eat, some to the point where they are too weak to walk. The men stopped eating to protest the constant verbal abuse and threats of deportation from guards, as well as the lengthy lockups while awaiting legal proceedings. A federal judge authorized the force-feeding  some El Paso detainees in mid-January but did not address the claims of abuse. The men who are being subjected to the nasal feeding tubes have been experiencing constant nose bleeds and are vomiting multiple times per day. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/c4b201dac8bf48eba17485a5c357b810))

2. **Former U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley is currently charging up to $200,000 to give speeches.** Haley also requires the use of a private jet to get to and from her domestic speaking engagements, while she is believed to charge much more for bookings outside the U.S. mainland. Haley signed up for the Washington Speakers Bureau after stepping down as U.S. Ambassador, and is now charging fees to give speeches at rates that are comparable to former U.S. presidents and Secretaries of State. Hillary Clinton drew criticism from opponents when she charged similar rates for her speeches, leading to demands that the transcripts of Clinton's speeches be made public. ([CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/01/30/ex-un-ambassador-nikki-haley-charging-200000-per-speaking-gig.html))

3. **The Treasury Department wrote a letter pushing back against California Rep. Jackie Speier's claims that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin had a conflict of interest that should have disqualified him from deciding to lift sanctions against a Russian oligarch's businesses.** The letter claims that Mnuchin didn't sell his stake in RPDE (RatPac-Dune Entertainment) to Len Blavatnik, a Ukrainian-born oligarch. "The Secretary," the letter explains, "sold his stake in RPDE to a third party unrelated to Mr. Blavatnik." The letter claims there was never any contact between Mnuchin and Blavatnik related to the sale or operation of the company, and that Blavatnik had "no business conversations whatsoever" with Mnuchin regarding the Treasury Department's decision to lift the sanctions. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/treasury-disputes-democrats-allegation-mnuchin-conflict-interest/story?id=60741398))

4. **Trump said he won't intervene with the DOJ's decision-making process regarding the release of Robert Mueller's report on possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election**. "They’ll have to make their decision within the Justice Department," Trump said. He insisted that he hadn't spoken with acting AG Matthew Whitaker about the final days of the inquiry, but he warned that he could have "ended everything" if he had wanted to. "I could’ve taken a much different stance," Trump cautioned. "I could’ve gotten involved in this. I could’ve terminated everything. I could’ve ended everything." ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/us/politics/trump-special-counsel-report.html))

5. **Trump blamed his inability to secure the funding for his border wall on former House Speaker Paul Ryan.** Trump said Ryan assured him that congressional Republicans would be able to lock down the money when Trump agreed not to veto last year's omnibus spending bill. Trump said Ryan promised him "in the strongest of terms" that if he signed the omnibus bill then Ryan and the Republicans would get him the money for his border wall. "And then he went lame duck," Trump said, referring to Ryan's decision to retire. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/01/30/politics/trump-paul-ryan-border-wall/index.html) / [Daily Caller](https://dailycaller.com/2019/01/30/trump-blames-paul-ryan-wall-funding/))

6. **The Bureau of Land Management will move forward in March with the sale of oil and gas leases that include land near Chaco Culture National Historical Park and other sacred Native American sites.** BLM officials have faced criticism for pushing ahead with the drilling permit reviews and energy lease preparations despite the government shutdown. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/cb5aa97fc7b243a3baef02a3ab1ff0f4))

7. **Mitch McConnell called a bill that would make Election Day a federal holiday a "power grab" by Democrats.** McConnell said the attempt by Democrats to make the bill a centerpiece of their agenda "a political power grab that’s smelling more and more like what it is." The bill would also prohibit the purging of voter rolls and would require presidential and vice-presidential candidates to release their tax returns, require states to form independent redistricting commissions, and create a matching system for small-dollar donations to congressional candidates. ([Washington Post](http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/mcconnell-says-bill-that-would-make-election-day-a-federal-holiday-is-a-power-grab-by-democrats/2019/01/30/57421dd6-24bd-11e9-ad53-824486280311_story.html))