---
title: Day 1190
date: 2020-04-23 06:22:00 -07:00
---

1. **The Health and Human Services secretary put a dog breeder with barely any public health experience in charge of the department's day-to-day response to the coronavirus pandemic.** In late January, Alex Azar tapped Brian Harrison — who had no formal education in public health, management, or medicine — as key manager of the HHS virus response. "Everyone had to report up through him," one HHS official said. Before joining the Trump administration in 2018, Harrison spent the previous six years running a dog breeding business called Dallas Labradoodles. Harrison also served as deputy chief of staff at HHS before being promoted in 2019 to replace Azar's first chief of staff, Peter Urbanowicz, a former hospital executive who spent decades working in the public health sector. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-usa-hhschief-speci-idUSKCN2243CE))

2. **A day after praising the decision, Trump now says he disagrees "strongly" with Gov. Brian Kemp's plan to allow businesses in Georgia to re-open amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.** On Tuesday, Trump lauded Kemp's decision to allow businesses like barbershops and nail salons to reopen and called him a "capable man who knows what he's doing." At his daily coronavirus press briefing on Wednesday, Trump reversed course. "I told the governor of Georgia, Brian Kemp, that I disagree strongly with his decision to open certain facilities," he told reporters. Trump added that he wants Kemp "to do what he thinks is right. But I disagree with him on what he's doing." ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-reverses-course-says-too-soon-georgia-reopen-n1190061))

3. **More than 26 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits over the last five weeks, wiping out all of the job gains since the Great Recession.** More than 4.2 million people filed for unemployment for the first time last week, down from more than 5.2 million the week before. Roughly 22 million jobs were created during the employment boom that began in September 2010 and ended in February 2020. Last week's data, however, marked the third week in a row of declining jobless claims. The peak appears to have been the record 6.87 million claims filed during the week of March 23. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-economy-idUSKCN2250CS))