---
title: Day 1008
date: 2019-10-24 04:37:00 -07:00
---

1. **Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was already concerned about pressure from the Trump administration to investigate Biden before he took office**, more than two months before his July 25 call with Trump. Zelensky met with a small group of advisers on May 7 for a meeting that was supposed to be about Ukraine's energy needs. Instead, the group spent three hours talking about how they were going to handle the calls for investigations coming from Trump and Giuliani, as well as how to avoid getting wrapped up in the U.S. election process. The meeting occurred before Zelensky was inaugurated, roughly two weeks after Trump called to congratulate him the night he won the April 21 election in Ukraine. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/b048901b635f423db49a10046daaf8a8) / [Axios](https://www.axios.com/ukraine-trump-pressure-military-aid-fb86bc7a-87a8-40a3-8f60-13c8bfc7eb12.html))

2. **Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said his intelligence services told William Barr that they played no role in the events leading to the Russia investigation, contradicting an unsubstantiated theory pushed by Trump** and his allies that the Mueller probe was launched with the help of a Western intelligence asset working with the Obama administration to spy on the Trump campaign. "Our intelligence is completely unrelated to the so-called Russiagate and that has been made clear," Conte told reporters. Prior to the briefing, Conte spent hours explaining Italy's discussions with Barr to Italy's parliamentary intelligence committee. Barr met twice with Italy’s intelligence agencies after asking them to clarify their role in a 2016 meeting between George Papadopolous and a Maltese professor named Joseph Mifsud, who told Papadopolous that Russia had obtained damaging information about Hillary Clinton in the form of "thousands of emails." ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/23/world/europe/italy-trump-conspiracy-conte.html))

3. **Trump bragged that his administration is building a wall along Colorado's border with Mexico, even though Colorado doesn't share a border with Mexico**. "We're building a wall on the border of New Mexico. And we're building a wall in Colorado," Trump said yesterday during a speech on American energy in Pittsburgh. Trump also said the wall will be "a big one that really works — you can't get over, you can't get under." Trump later tried to claim on Twitter that he was only joking: "(Kiddingly) We’re building a Wall in Colorado'(then stated, 'we’re not building a Wall in Kansas but they get the benefit of the Wall we’re building on the Border') refered to people in the very packed auditorium, from Colorado & Kansas, getting the benefit of the Border Wall!" *Editor's note: Everything after the word "joking" is verbatim from Trump's actual tweet, including the weird spacing, parentheses, and spelling issues.* ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/10/23/politics/trump-us-building-wall-colorado/index.html))

4. **Kim Jong Un said his relationship with Trump is a "special" one, and that he and Trump still "trust in each other."** One of North Korea's most respected diplomats told state media that Trump and Kim still enjoy "close relations" and that he hopes "a motive force to overcome all the obstacles between the DPRK and the US and to advance the bilateral relations in the better direction" will occur as a result of the "close relationship" between the two leaders. The statement was seen as optimistic in light of the fact that working-level talks between the U.S. and North Korea in Sweden collapsed earlier this month. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/10/24/asia/donald-trump-kim-jong-un-intl-hnk/index.html))

5. **Trump told his Republican allies in the Senate that he wants to nominate Ken Cuccinelli to be his next Department of Homeland Security secretary, but he doesn't think the GOP will support the nomination**. Cuccinelli is the former attorney general of Virginia and an immigration hardliner who has made enemies within his party after leading a group that raised money to primary incumbent Republican senators such as Mitch McConnell. Cuccinelli has voiced his support for some of Trump's harshest immigration policies, including the new "public charge" rules, which would make it harder for immigrants to obtain legal permanent residency by denying green cards to people who use or are likely to use government benefits. Trump has said that he plans to name Cuccinelli if he believes the Senate leadership would support the nomination. ([NPR](https://www.npr.org/2019/10/23/772730225/exclusive-trump-wants-to-pick-cuccinelli-for-dhs-but-worries-senate-would-balk))
