---
title: Day 1314
date: 2020-08-25 06:08:00 -07:00
---

1. **The FDA commissioner pushed back against Trump's baseless claim that elements of the "deep state" are deliberately stalling coronavirus vaccine development at the agency.** "I have not seen anything that I would consider to be ‘deep state’ at the FDA," said Stephen Hahn. Trump claimed without evidence on Saturday that members of the so-called "deep state" are working within the FDA of complicating efforts to test COVID-19 vaccines in order to delay results until after the Nov. 3 presidential election. Despite Trump's attacks, Hahn says he still has "a very good relationship with the president" and that he feels "very comfortable and continue to feel comfortable with that relationship." ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-usa-hahn-exclusive/exclusive-fda-commissioner-disputes-trump-says-no-deep-state-thwarting-vaccine-idUSKBN25L0A2) / [The Hill](https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/513496-fda-chief-pushes-back-on-trump-no-deep-state-blocking-coronavirus-vaccine))

2. **The FDA "grossly misrepresented data" about the use of blood plasma therapy to treat coronavirus patients**, according to the head of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh. "For the first time ever, I feel like official people in communications and people at the F.D.A. grossly misrepresented data about a therapy," said Dr. Walid Gellad. Trump and two of his top health officials announced at a recent press conference that the treatment had reduced deaths by 35%, but many experts and scientists say the way the administration framed the data is misleading. They also don't know exactly where the statistic came from. The data seems to have been calculated based on a small subgroup of hospitalized COVID-19 patients in a Mayo Clinic study. The number does not appear in the official authorization letter issued by the agency, nor was it in a 17-page memo written by F.D.A. scientists. It also does not appear in an analysis conducted by the Mayo Clinic that has been frequently cited by the administration. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/24/health/fda-blood-plasma.html))

3. **Dr. Anthony Fauci warned that rushing out a coronavirus vaccine under special emergency use guidelines before it has been proved safe and effective is a bad idea and could have a chilling effect on the testing of other vaccines.** "One of the potential dangers if you prematurely let a vaccine out is that it would make it difficult, if not impossible, for the other vaccines to enroll people in their trial," Fauci said. Fauci declined to comment on Trump's recent tweets about the "deep state" and the FDA, but he reiterated the risks of rushing vaccine development "before you have a signal of efficacy." Other vaccine experts say they're worried that the White House may pressure the FDA to push out a vaccine under an Emergency Use Authorization before it has been fully tested — a pathway that has never been used to approve a vaccine intended for widespread use. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-vaccine-approval-e-idUSKBN25K2M0))