---
title: Day 636
date: 2018-10-17 05:56:00 -07:00
---

1. **Trump complained about the rush to blame Saudi Arabia for the death of Jamal Khashoggi and compared the case to the sexual assault allegations against Brett Kavanaugh.** "Here we go again with, you know, you’re guilty until proven innocent," Trump said. "I don’t like that. We just went through that with Justice Kavanaugh and he was innocent all the way as far as I’m concerned." ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/6ef4045b710b411086e93967eb8ffc4f))

2. **Trump said he won't take any of the blame if the GOP loses the House in the midterms, and he dismissed the notion that the midterms would be a referendum on his presidency.** "No, I think I’m helping people," Trump said. "I don’t believe anybody’s ever had this kind of an impact." Trump also said some of his supporters have told them they will not be voting on Nov. 6 because Trump isn't going to be on the ballot. "I'm not running," Trump explained. "I mean, there are many people that have said to me ... 'I will never ever go and vote in the midterms because you're not running and I don't think you like Congress.'" Trump clarified that he does like Congress. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/8f4baf7aaddc442dad0a726f3ebe7fff))

3. **Trump accused Michael Cohen of lying under oath and giving "totally false" testimony during his August plea deal to campaign finance violations**, during which he claimed he coordinated directly with Trump. Trump claimed Cohen was just "a PR person who did small legal work" for him, and said Cohen had only struck a deal to "achieve a lighter sentence." ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/elections/trump-lashes-out-former-lawyer-cohen-lied-under-oath-was-n920951))
