---
title: Day 1198
date: 2020-05-01 05:25:00 -07:00
---

1. **The Secret Service paid more than $33,000 to rent a room for 137 nights in a row at Trump's Washington hotel so it could guard Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin while he stayed in a luxury suite at the hotel.** The Secret Service also rented the room next to Mnuchin's at taxpayer expense so they could screen Mnuchin’s visitors and deliveries. For that room, the Trump International Hotel charged the Secret Service at the maximum possible rate for federal agencies in 2017: $242 per night. The total bill for both rooms was $33,154. Mnuchin paid for his own room, but his decision to stay at a Trump property produced two revenue streams for Trump’s company. "The Secretary was not aware of what the U.S. Secret Service paid for the adjoining room," a spokesperson for Mnuchin said. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/secret-service-paid-trumps-dc-hotel-more-than-33000-for-lodging-to-guard-treasury-secretary/2020/04/30/cd38e864-8987-11ea-ac8a-fe9b8088e101_story.html))

2. **Mike Pence's office threatened to retaliate against a journalist who revealed that reporters were told by Pence's office that they would be required to wear masks for Pence's visit to the Mayo Clinic — even though Pence himself didn't wear a mask.** The Minnesota clinic requires all visitors to wear masks to prevent further spread of the virus, but Pence was the only one in the room not wearing one during his visit. Karen Pence told Fox News that Pence wasn't aware of the rule until after the visit, but reporter Steve Herman tweeted that "All of us who traveled with \[Pence\] were notified by the office of @VP the day before the trip that wearing of masks was required by the @MayoClinic and to prepare accordingly."  Pence's office then contacted Herman, said he violated the off-the-record terms that had been sent to him and other reporters before Pence’s trip, and banned him from traveling on Air Force Two unless Herman apologizes for his tweet. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/media/pence-staff-threatens-action-against-reporter-who-tweeted-about-visit-to-clinic-without-surgical-mask/2020/04/30/27c63056-8b0a-11ea-9dfd-990f9dcc71fc_story.html))

3. **Trump contradicted his own intelligence agencies and claimed — without providing proof — that he has seen evidence that gives him a "high degree of confidence" that the novel coronavirus came from a lab in Wuhan, China.** Hours earlier, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued a statement saying that kind of assessment had not been made yet, and that the office continues to "rigorously examine" the origins of the virus. When asked whether he has seen evidence that the virus originated in a lab, Trump said, "Yes, I have." When asked why he's so confident in his assessment, he said, "I can't tell you that. I'm not allowed to tell you that." ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/30/politics/trump-intelligence-community-china-coronavirus-origins/index.html))