---
title: Day 1245
date: 2020-06-17 06:24:00 -07:00
---

1. **Chinese officials raised the country's emergency warning to its second-highest level in response to a new outbreak of coronavirus in Beijing**. More than 60% of the flights into the city have been canceled. New infections have also started to spike in India, Iran and U.S. states including Florida, Texas and Arizona. Chinese officials described the situation in Beijing as "extremely grave" and said the new outbreak "has truly rung an alarm bell for us." A party official said Beijing expects to have tested at least 700,000 people by the end of the day, roughly half of whom are workers at Beijing's food markets, residents, and close contacts. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/54374ff841dfd84323a1fb86d1e93180))

2. **Trump is considering suing his niece Mary Trump to prevent her from publishing a tell-all book about him** after being briefed about the possible contents of the book. Trump has told people close to him that he has his lawyers looking into his options when it comes to legal retribution. It is unclear what kind of response Trump and his legal team will ultimately take, if any. ([Daily Beast](https://www.thedailybeast.com/trump-considers-suing-his-niece-mary-trump-over-her-tell-all-book-saying-she-signed-an-nda))

3. **A Tulsa judge rejected a request from local residents and business owners to prevent Trump from holding an indoor campaign rally this weekend due to fears that it would exacerbate the spread of coronavirus in Oklahoma.** The lawsuit filed in the Tulsa County district court sought a temporary injunction against the company that manages the venue in order to "protect against a substantial, imminent, and deadly risk to the community" if the event was to go forward. Judge Rebecca Nightingale denied the request. Tulsa's Republican mayor also said he would not use his emergency powers to prevent Trump from holding the rally, despite his own reservations about the event. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/oklahoma-lawsuit-tries-to-block-trumps-rally-because-of-coronavirus-fears/2020/06/16/175bbf30-b01f-11ea-a567-6172530208bd_story.html))