---
title: Day 1026
date: 2019-11-11 06:40:00 -08:00
---

1. **An associate of Rudy Giuliani told the incoming Volodymyr Zelensky administration in Ukraine that the country needed to announce an investigation into the Bidens or Mike Pence wouldn't attend Zelensky's swearing-in ceremony**. Lev Parnas says he traveled to Ukraine earlier this year to deliver the demand to the Zelensky administration, contradicting the narrative put forth by Trump officials. Parnas' claim directly links Giuliani to threats of repercussions made to Ukrainians, but it is being contradicted on multiple fronts. While no one disputes that the meeting occurred, even Parnas' business partner Igor Fruman disagrees that the intention of the meeting was to present an ultimatum to Ukrainian leadership. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/10/nyregion/trump-ukraine-parnas-fruman.html))

2. **Two supporters of Energy Secretary Rick Perry secured an energy and gas exploration deal from the Ukrainian government after Perry recommended one of them to become an adviser to Zelensky**. Perry made the recommendation just as Zelensky was attempting to secure the nearly $400 million in U.S. military aid that is now at the center of the House impeachment inquiry against Trump. Perry attended Zelensky’s inauguration in May, where he gave Zelensky a list of Ukrainian energy secretary recommendations that included longtime Perry supporter Michael Bleyzer. A week later, Bleyzer and his partner Alex Cranberg submitted a bid for a 50-year drilling contract in Ukraine. Ukraine awarded the contract to Perry’s supporters about a month after Perry's visit. ([Associated Press](https://apnews.com/6d8ae551fb884371a2a592ed85a74426))

3. **Mick Mulvaney asked to join a federal lawsuit over whether Congress can compel senior Trump advisers to testify as part of the House impeachment inquiry**. One of Trump's former top national security advisers originally filed the suit last month, saying that he faces conflicting orders from Congress and the White House regarding his obligation to participate in the inquiry. Mulvaney's attorneys say he's facing the same dilemma, which is why he skipped his scheduled deposition on Friday and claimed he was protected by "absolute immunity." ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2019/11/09/mulvaney-asks-join-lawsuit-over-conflicting-demands-impeachment-testimony/))

* **Mulvaney's last-minute request to join the lawsuit caught former national security adviser John Bolton and his attorneys by surprise**. Bolton has said that he is willing to testify in the impeachment inquiry if the judge rules in favor of the House. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/mulvaneys-move-to-join-impeachment-testimony-lawsuit-rankles-bolton-allies/2019/11/10/06f3553a-0332-11ea-8bab-0fc209e065a8_story.html))

1. **Former U.N. ambassador Nikki Haley says two of Trump's senior advisers approached her and asked her to help them subvert and undermine Trump in order to "save the country,"** according to her new memoir. Haley claims that former secretary of state Rex Tillerson and former White House chief of staff John Kelly tried to recruit her to ignore Trump and help them work around him, an offer she refused. "Kelly and Tillerson confided in me that when they resisted the president," Haley writes, "they weren’t being insubordinate, they were trying to save the country." ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/nikki-haley-claims-top-aides-tried-to-recruit-her-to-save-the-country-by-undermining-trump/2019/11/10/f92bac88-0267-11ea-9518-1e76abc088b6_story.html))