---
title: Day 775
date: 2019-03-05 05:51:00 -08:00
---

1. **Trump accused India of unfairly shutting out American businesses and announced plans to end special trade treatment for the country.** Trump sent a letter to Congress and signaled his intent to remove India from a program that gives developing nations easier access to U.S. markets. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program lowers U.S. duties on exports from 121 countries. India was the biggest beneficiary of the program in 2017, with exemptions on $5.6 billion worth of goods. ([CNN Business](https://www.cnn.com/2019/03/05/economy/india-us-trade/index.html))

2. **Donor records reveal that Trump or Ivanka have donated to six of the declared or potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, including Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, and Kirsten Gillibrand**. Harris received money from Trump six years ago, Jared and Ivanka held a fundraiser for Booker, and Gillibrand accepted Trump family donations three times over a seven-year period. Trump gave Harris two donations worth a total of $6,000 in 2011 and 2013, when she was already a rising star in the Democratic Party as California's attorney general. The donations were among several contributions Trump gave to attorneys general who were investigating Trump University or had investigated it in the past. ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/03/05/2020-presidential-dems-trump-money-1202938))

3. **Michael Cohen's attorney raised the possibility of a pardon with Trump's attorneys in the weeks after the FBI raided Cohen's properties in April.** The House Judiciary Committee is currently investigating those conversations between Cohen's attorney, Stephen Ryan, and Trump's attorneys, Jay Sekulow, Rudy Giuliani and Joanna Hendon. Trump's attorneys dismissed the idea at the time, but Giuliani left the possibility open that Trump could grant Cohen a pardon in the future. There is no indication that Cohen personally asked for a pardon, or that he was aware of any discussions on the subject. ([Wall Street Journal](http://www.wsj.com/articles/lawyer-for-cohen-approached-trump-attorneys-about-pardon-11551753372))

4. **Former White House attorney Ty Cobb says Robert Mueller is "an American hero."** Cobb says he doesn't "feel the same way about Mueller" that Trump does, nor does he think Mueller's investigation is a politically motivated hoax. "I don't feel the investigation is a witch hunt," Cobb said. He added that he does believe Mueller's final report will spare Trump from any serious political harm, and that the investigation will continue into 2020. "\[I\]t's never going to be over," Cobb said. "I mean, this is going to go through 2020. And if the president is reelected, it'll go beyond that." ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-white-house-lawyer-calls-mueller-american-hero/story?id=61455661))