---
title: Day 763
date: 2019-02-21 05:07:00 -08:00
---

1. **Nancy Pelosi says the House is preparing to vote in the coming days on a resolution rejecting Trump's national emergency declaration**. Pelosi is encouraging fellow Democrats to support the measure as she attempts to stop Trump from going around Congress to build his border wall. Pelosi says the House plans to move "swiftly" to pass the disapproval resolution, but she did not provide an exact date and said it would have to move through a House committee before appearing on the floor for a final vote. ([Washington Post](http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/pelosi-says-house-will-vote-on-resolution-opposing-trumps-emergency-declaration/2019/02/20/c5ba6fd8-357b-11e9-854a-7a14d7fec96a_story.html))

2. **Michael Cohen has agreed to testify publicly before Congress on Wednesday next week about his work as Trump's longtime fixer, lawyer, and confidant.** Lawmakers have said they will limit the scope of their questions out of deference to Robert Mueller and his team's ongoing investigation. Cohen will appear next week before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, where he'll be given an opportunity to explain the work he did for Trump, including the illegal plan during the 2016 campaign to pay off two women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/20/us/politics/michael-cohen-testimony.html))

3. **Senate investigators are looking to question a Moscow-based American businessman with deep ties to Trump after witnesses told lawmakers that the man could provide information about Trump's commercial and personal activities in Russia dating all the way back to the 1990s.** The Senate Intelligence Committee has been interested in speaking with David Geovanis for several months. Geovanis helped organize a 1996 trip to Moscow for Trump while he was in the early stages of pursuing what would become his long-held goal of building a Trump Tower in Russia's capital city. Years later, Geovanis worked for Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/02/21/politics/senate-trump-russia-david-geovanis-intl/index.html))

4. **A former Trump staffer filed a class action lawsuit against the Trump campaign alleging that all of the nondisclosure and nondisparagement agreements that the Trump campaign made its employees sign are invalid.** The claims brought by Jessica Denson are the broadest attack on Trump's campaign practices to date, which include having staffers, volunteers, and contractors sign agreements that prohibit them from ever publicly criticizing Trump, his company, or his family, and bars them from disclosing private or confidential information about all three. Denson's lawyers believe thousands of campaign staffers, volunteers, and contractors signed NDAs and could be covered by the case. If the agreements they signed are eventually thrown out in court, they would all be free to discuss their time working for the campaign and to criticize Trump without fear of financial penalties or legal retribution. ([BuzzFeed News](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/zoetillman/trump-campaign-nondisclosure-agreements-class-action-lawsuit))