---
title: Day 470
date: 2018-05-04 04:56:00 -07:00
---

1. **Paul Ryan agreed to keep Rev. Patrick Conroy on as House chaplain in response to pressure from other members of the House**. Ryan had previously asked Conroy to step down from his position, questioning whether Conroy was delivering sufficient "pastoral services" to the House. Conroy initially tendered, then retracted his resignation and accused Ryan's chief of staff of anti-Catholic bias. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/house-chaplain-rescinds-resignation-after-furor-over-his-ouster-by-ryan/2018/05/03/b770de7c-4f07-11e8-84a0-458a1aa9ac0a_story.html?utm_term=.d9301d17fc98))

2. **Rudy Giuliani thinks there is a "50/50" chance that Robert Mueller will subpoena the president to testify in front of a grand jury**. “I think it's 50/50,” Giuliani said. “But I got to prepare for that 50 percent.” Referring to his recent statements regarding the $130,000 hush payment to Stormy Daniels, Giuliani said, "We don't hear anything, see anything, see any documents that contradict what we've said." He continued: "Some of the recollection is a little hazy because it came during a very busy period. But, I mean, on both sides it's pretty clear. They may have a little differences here and there but nothing important.” ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/giuliani-believes-5050-chance-mueller-subpoenas-president-trump/story?id=54923079))

3. **Former CIA director Michael Hayden said the hysteria over the 2015 military exercise known as "Jade Helm" was fueled in part by Russians who wanted to dominate "the information space."** In the summer of 2015, Hayden said, "Russian bots and the American alt-right media \[that\] convinced many Texans \[Jade Helm\] was an Obama plan to round up political dissidents.” Gov. Abbott's decision to send the National Guard to monitor the exercise demonstrated the power of disinformation campaigns to affect the American public. ([Texas Tribune](https://www.texastribune.org/2018/05/03/hysteria-over-jade-helm-exercise-texas-was-fueled-russians-former-cia-/))