---
title: Day 826
date: 2019-04-25 04:41:00 -07:00
---

1. **The White House informed the House Oversight Committee that Stephen Miller will not testify about his role in Trump's immigration policies.** White House counsel Pat Cipollone sent a letter to the committee and cited a "long-standing precedent" of previous administrations refusing to make White House staff available to testify on Capitol Hill. Cipollone said Cabinet secretaries and other executive branch officials would instead provide "reasonable accommodation" for requests and questions from the committee on immigration policy issues. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/24/politics/white-house-stephen-miller-testify-immigration/index.html))

2. **Trump tried on multiple occasions to get Jeff Sessions to "unrecuse" himself from the Russia investigation and re-open an investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server**, according to the Mueller report. The first time was in the middle of 2017, when Trump called Sessions at home and asked him to unrecuse himself from "all of it" and go after Clinton. No evidence has emerged showing that Sessions ever acted on any of Trump's requests to have Clinton's case reopened, but he did ask a DOJ official in November 2017 to review Trump's claims about Clinton, as well as the FBI's handling of the Trump-Russia investigation. After a cabinet meeting in December 2017, Trump pulled Sessions aside and once again and said, "I don’t know if you could unrecuse yourself. You’d be a hero. Not telling you to do anything." ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/24/us/politics/jeff-sessions-hillary-clinton-donald-trump.html))

3. **Trump said adding a citizenship question to the 2020 Census was necessary because "the American people deserve to know who is in this country,"** a different rationale than the one the Justice and Commerce departments have offered in defense of adding the question. The DOJ and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have been arguing that the question is needed to better protect voting rights. The Supreme Court is currently considering how and why the citizenship question was added, and whether Ross ignored advice from experts and circumvented the administrative review process in order to reinstate the question nearly 70 years after it was removed. Ross has previously testified that he added the question "solely" at the request of the Justice Department in order to help enforce the Voting Rights Act, but Trump's latest justification contradicts that line of argument. ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/story/2019/04/24/trump-citizenship-census-1289245))