---
title: Day 1330
date: 2020-09-10 05:50:00 -07:00
---

1. **Suspected Russian state-backed hackers targeted one of Joe Biden's main election campaign advisory firms.** Microsoft recently alerted the campaign that over the past two months, the hackers targeted staff at the Washington-based campaign strategy and communications firm, SKDKnickerbocker, which has been working with Biden and other prominent Democrats. The hackers failed to gain access to the firm's networks, according to a person familiar with SKDK’s response to the attacks. "They are well-defended, so there has been no breach," the person said. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the allegations as "nonsense." It is unclear whether Biden's campaign was the target or whether the hackers were attempting to gain access to information about other SKDK clients. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-cyber-biden-exclusive-idUSKBN2610I4))

2. **Trump unveiled a revised list of 20 potential Supreme Court justices that includes Sens. Tom Cotton and Ted Cruz.** Trump's top aides and advisors have encouraged him for months to release an updated list of justices ahead of Election Day as a way to remind his base what's at stake on November 3. Cotton said he was "honored" to be selected for the list and that he believes "the Supreme Court could use some more justices who understand the difference between applying the law and making the law." Cruz said in a statement that he is "grateful for the president’s confidence in me and for his leadership in nominating principled constitutionalists to the federal bench." The list's release was originally slated to take place prior to the Republican National Convention. ([Axios](https://www.axios.com/trump-supreme-court-list-90b32844-534d-43e2-9b3a-7cdf8ee65e37.html))

3. **A federal judge rejected Trump's bid to dismiss a lawsuit alleging that Trump's inaugural committee and the Trump Organization misused nonprofit funds to enrich Trump's businesses**. The suit was brought by D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine in January. It claims that Trump's inaugural committee was aware that it was being overcharged for services at Trump's D.C. hotel in 2017 and still spent over $1 million at the hotel. Some of the money was spent on a private party for Trump's three older children. Part of the inaugural committee's argument is that Racine's office failed to show a violation of the Nonprofit Act and that the committee is not "continuing to act" in violation of the law. D.C. Superior Court Judge José López rejected that argument and allowed the suit to move forward. ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/lawsuit-against-trump-inaugural-committee-can-continue-judge-rules-n1239703))

4. poll/ **46% of American households report facing serious financial pain during the coronavirus pandemic.** 54% of those with household incomes under $100,000 reported serious financial problems, compared to 20% of households with incomes greater than $100,000. 35% say they have used up all or most of their savings, and 28% report serious problems paying off debt. ([NPR](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2020/09/10/910724801/yukis-narrative-rich-overview-of-poll-data-on-pandemics-damage))