---
title: Day 1303
date: 2020-08-14 06:55:00 -07:00
---

1. **Trump will deliver his Republican National Convention speech from the White House lawn.** "I’ll probably be giving my speech at the White House because it is a great place," Trump said. "It’s a place that makes me feel good, it makes the country feel good." He added that it's "very big, a very big lawn," and would allow a "big group of people" to attend while maintaining social distancing. Nancy Pelosi called the decision "very wrong" and said the idea that Trump plans to "degrade once again the White House, as he has done over and over again, by saying he’s going to completely politicize it, is something that should be rejected right out of hand." ([New York Post](https://nypost.com/2020/08/13/trump-plans-to-deliver-rnc-speech-on-white-house-lawn/))

2. **Trump perpetuated a racist and false conspiracy theory that Kamala Harris is not eligible for the vice presidency or presidency because her parents were immigrants.** "I heard it today that she doesn’t meet the requirements," Trump told reporters. "I have no idea if that’s right," he added. "I would have thought, I would have assumed, that the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen to run for vice president." Trump appeared to be referring to a widely discredited op-ed published by a conservative lawyer named John Eastman, who has long argued that the U.S. Constitution doesn't grant birthright citizenship (it does). Trump used a similar tactic nearly a decade ago to undermine the legitimacy of Barack Obama's administration by claiming that Obama was born outside the United States. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-kamala-harris.html))

3. **Trump requested a mail-in ballot for himself and Melania Trump ahead of Florida's primary election, despite repeatedly denigrating mail-in voting and falsely claiming that it leads to widespread voter fraud.** Last week, Trump singled out Florida as an exception, tweeting that his supporters there should request an absentee ballot and vote by mail because the election system in the Republican-run battleground state is "Safe and Secure, Tried and True." ([USA Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/08/13/trump-requests-mail-ballot-florida-primary-despite-rhetoric/3371605001/))

4. **A federal judge in Pennsylvania ordered the Trump campaign and the GOP to produce evidence of vote-by-mail fraud in the state by Friday.** The order effectively forces the campaign to back up Trump's false claims about massive voter fraud in postal voting. District Judge J. Nicholas Ranjan said the Court finds "instances of voter fraud are relevant to the claims and defenses in this case" and ordered Republicans to turn over any evidence of fraud to the Democratic Party and the Sierra Club, which are part of the lawsuit. Democrats had asked for information and documents that would show steps the Republicans took to study the possibility of fraud, especially related to the use of dropboxes, ballot collection and mailed-in ballots in the primary elections. Until now, Trump and the GOP have refused to do so. ([CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/13/politics/trump-campaign-voter-fraud-lawsuit-pennsylvania/index.html))

5. poll/ **71% of Americans see the coronavirus as a real threat, but 35% say they won't get vaccinated against it once a vaccine becomes available.** 60% say they will get the vaccine. 71% of Democrats say they'll get the vaccine, while only 48% of Republicans say they same. ([NPR](https://www.npr.org/2020/08/14/902265017/poll-biden-expands-lead-a-third-of-country-says-it-wont-get-vaccinated))