---
title: Day 922
date: 2019-07-30 04:34:00 -07:00
---

1. **One of Trump's billionaire friends tried to buy the only U.S. manufacturer of large reactors while he was lobbying Trump to become a special envoy and promote the company's nuclear work in Saudi Arabia**, according to a new congressional report. Tom Barrack failed in both efforts, but his attempts raised "serious questions about whether the White House is willing to place the potential profits of the President’s friends above the national security of the American people and the universal objective of preventing the spread of nuclear weapons." The report shows Barrack negotiated with Trump and other White House officials to seek "powerful positions" like special Middle East envoy while he was also attempting to purchase Westinghouse Electric Company, the sole American manufacturer of large-scale nuclear reactors — partly with capital from Saudi Arabia or its close ally, the United Arab Emirates. ([The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/jul/29/tom-barrack-saudi-arabia-nuclear-deal-envoy) / [New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/29/us/politics/trump-adviser-said-to-have-pursued-saudi-nuclear-deal-as-he-sought-administration-role.html))

2. **Tom Barrack provided a draft of one of Trump's major energy speeches in 2016 to senior officials from the United Arab Emirates for edits**, according to emails and text messages uncovered by a House Oversight Committee investigation. Two weeks before Trump was scheduled to give the speech, Barrack provided a former business associate inside the UAE with an advance copy of the speech, which the associate then shared with UAE and Saudi government officials. Later, Barrack arranged for the edits requested by the UAE officials to be added to the speech with the help of Paul Manafort. "This is the most likely final version of the speech. It has the language you want,” Manafort confirmed in an email to Barrack on the day of the speech. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-aide-submitted-drafts-2016-america-energy-speech/story?id=64634140))

3. **John Ratcliffe, Trump's pick for director of national intelligence, was the one who started the conspiracy theory in January 2018 that the text messages between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok before the 2016 election were proof that there was a "secret society" working against Trump**. Ratcliffe's claims were amplified by conservative media outlets, but immediately fell apart when the rest of the text messages were released. "We learned today about information that in the immediate aftermath of his election, there may have been a ‘secret society’ of folks within the Department of Justice and the FBI, to include Page and Strzok, working against him," Ratcliffe said on Fox News in 2018. "I’m not saying that actually happened, but when folks speak in those terms, they need to come forward to explain the context." ([Daily Beast](https://www.thedailybeast.com/trump-intel-pick-john-ratcliffe-started-theory-of-fbi-anti-trump-secret-society))

4. **White House adviser Stephen Miller wants Border Patrol agents to screen asylum seekers in order to reduce the number of migrants who get approved for asylum in the U.S**. A National Security Council official sent an email to Customs and Border Patrol telling them to come to a meeting last Friday prepared to discuss rates of approval for initial screenings for migrants interviewed by Border Patrol agents instead of asylum officers. Asylum officers, often referred to as CIS because they work for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, had approval rates above 90 percent. "I can almost assure you," the email said, "that the credible fear integrity (discussion) will be centered on the numbers ... you all are seeing with \[Border Patrol\] agents assessing credible fear as opposed to the 97 \+ % he was seeing only with CIS." The first thing migrants must do when seeking asylum is to convince asylum officers that they have a "credible fear" for their safety in their home country. ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/immigration/stephen-miller-wants-use-border-agents-screen-migrants-cut-number-n1035831))
