---
title: Day 1000
date: 2019-10-16 04:05:00 -07:00
---

1. **The White House is conducting its own investigation into why a rough transcript of Trump's July 25 call with Ukrainian President Zelensky was placed into a secret server for secure storage**. Trump's advisers and White House lawyers began the fact-finding review to find out what happened, but some fear the review is an attempt to find a scapegoat. It is unclear who asked for or initiated the review, though acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney has encouraged it and his aids are helping with it. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/white-house-review-ukraine.html))

2. **Mick Mulvaney was the one who put Gordon Sondland, Kurt Volker, and Energy Secretary Rick Perry in charge of managing the U.S.-Ukraine relationship** instead of diplomats at the National Security Council and the State Department. The State Department's Ukraine expert George Kent testified during a closed-door hearing before the House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs, and Oversight committees that Mulvaney was responsible for stripping control of the country’s relationship with Ukraine from those who had the most expertise. Current and former officials also said Mulvaney met frequently with Sondland and that details of their discussions were kept from then-National Security Adviser John Bolton and other officials who were raising internal concerns about the hidden Ukraine agenda. Mulvaney was also the one who, at Trump's direction, placed a hold on nearly $400 million in aid to Ukraine leading up to Trump's July 25 phone call to pressure Zelensky to pursue Giuliani’s agenda against the Bidens. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/mulvaney-emerges-as-a-key-facilitator-of-the-campaign-to-pressure-ukraine/2019/10/15/9d46b7ae-ef76-11e9-89eb-ec56cd414732_story.html))

3. **Giuliani privately urged Trump in 2017 to extradite a Turkish cleric living in exile in the U.S.**, a top priority of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Before he would go on to become Trump's personal attorney, Giuliani repeatedly told Trump that the U.S.should eject Fethullah Gulen from the country. Gulen is a permanent U.S. resident who lives in Pennsylvania, and Turkey has demanded that the U.S. turn him over to Turkey to face charges of plotting a 2016 coup attempt against Erdogan. Gulen denies any involvement in the coup attempt. ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/giuliani-pressed-trump-to-eject-muslim-cleric-from-us-a-top-priority-of-turkish-president-former-officials-say/2019/10/15/bf43d1ec-ef68-11e9-b648-76bcf86eb67e_story.html))

4. **Trump issued his second veto against a bill that would have ended his national emergency declaration at the southern U.S. border**. The veto was expected and the bill now returns to Congress, where it is unlikely to garner the two-thirds majority needed to override Trump's veto. Trump vetoed a nearly identical version of the bill seven months ago. Trump said the national emergency declaration has "empowered my administration’s governmentwide strategy to counter large-scale unlawful migration" and said he vetoed the bill because "it was a dangerous resolution that would undermine United States sovereignty and threaten the lives and safety of countless Americans." ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/trump-veto-national-emergency.html))