---
title: Day 712
date: 2019-01-02 04:15:00 -08:00
---

1. **Trump gave the military four months to remove the 2,000 U.S. troops currently stationed in Syria.** He said two weeks ago that military would pull out in 30 days, but confirmed today on Twitter that any withdrawal would be conducted "slowly." Trump went on to complain about the lack fanfare over his decision to pull U.S. troops out of Syria. "If anybody but Donald Trump did what I did in Syria," Trump tweeted, "which was an ISIS loaded mess when I became President, they would be a national hero." He continued: "ISIS is mostly gone, we’re slowly sending our troops back home to be with their families, while at the same time fighting ISIS remnants." During a surprise trip to Iraq last week, Trump privately told the general in charge of U.S. operations in Iraq and Syria, Lt. Gen. Paul LaCamera, that the military would be given months to pull U.S. forces out of Syria in a safe and orderly fashion. Trump could also change his mind and speed up the departure at any time. ([New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/31/us/politics/trump-troop-withdrawal-syria-months.html)) 

2. **Border Patrol agents fired tear gas canisters into Mexico at a group of 150 people who were attempting to cross the U.S.-Mexico border at Tijuana shortly after midnight on New Year's Eve.** CPB says its agents were not directly targeting the people who were attempting to cross the fence. In a statement, CPB claimed agents were instead aiming upwind of another group of migrants who were allegedly throwing rocks at them in order to prevent CPB agents from helping migrant children who were been passed across the border over rows of razor wire. Most people in the group turned back toward Mexico and left while CPB detained 25 people, including two teenagers. This is the second known occasion during which U.S. agents used gas as a deterrent or dispersal tactic against migrants. A similar incident occurred in November 2018, into which Mexico later called on the U.S. to launch an investigation. ([Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-afghanistan-people/afghanistans-neighbors-fear-refugee-crisis-if-u-s-pulls-out-idUSKCN1OV1E4) / [Associated Press](https://apnews.com/3f2a5aba2a8844dcb05816a24402739e))

3. **The next morning, Trump invited congressional leaders to the White House for a border security briefing on Wednesday.** The briefing will be the first face-to-face session between members of both parties since the partial government shutdown began 11 days earlier on Dec. 22. Homeland Security officials will brief the top two leaders of each party from both the Senate and the House. "Border Security and the Wall 'thing' and Shutdown," Trump tweeted, "is not where Nancy Pelosi wanted to start her tenure as Speaker! Let’s make a deal?" ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-tells-america-to-chill-out-and-enjoy-the-ride-in-2019/2019/01/01/20c52266-0de9-11e9-831f-3aa2c2be4cbd_story.html?utm_term=.4b2eae05b3aa))

4. **Trump tweeted that retired Gen. Stanley McChrystal "got fired like a dog" and said that McChrystal is known for his "big, dumb mouth" after McChrystal criticized Trump during a TV interview.** "'General' McChrystal," Trump tweeted, "got fired like a dog by Obama. Last assignment a total bust. Known for big, dumb mouth. Hillary lover!" On Sunday, McChrystal told ABC's Martha Raddatz that Trump is immoral and dishonest. "I don’t think he tells the truth," McChrystal said when asked if he thinks Trump is a liar. He also asked Trump supporters to "stand in front of that mirror and say, 'What are we about? Am I really willing to throw away or ignore some of the things that people do that are -- are pretty unacceptable normally just because they accomplish certain other things that we might like?'" McChrystal was relieved of his command in 2010 by then-President Obama after he made controversial comments about the Obama administration in a Rolling Stone article. ([ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-retired-army-gen-stanley-mcchrystal-big-dumb/story?id=60106026))

5. **Trump tried to convince people on Twitter that the Obamas had a 10-foot wall built around their family home in D.C. as a reason why the U.S. should build a wall along the southern border with Mexico.** "President and Mrs. Obama built/has a ten foot Wall around their D.C. mansion/compound," Trump tweeted. "I agree, totally necessary for their safety and security. The U.S. needs the same thing, slightly larger version!" According to a neighbor (and all of the available photos of the residence), "There’s a fence that goes along the front of the house, but it’s the same as the other neighbors have." Another neighbor said the house is "100 percent visible from the street." ([Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/12/31/trump-claims-theres-foot-wall-around-obamas-dc-home-neighbors-say-theres-not/?utm_term=.290ffa136c47) / [Rolling Stone](https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/trump-obama-wall-773963/))