---
title: Day 1351
date: 2020-10-01 06:30:00 -07:00
---

1. **Federal law enforcement officials were instructed to be sympathetic to the Kenosha shooter when speaking to the press.** An internal Department of Homeland Security document directed officials to note that Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenager charged with killing two protesters, "took his rifle to the scene of the rioting to help defend small business owners." Another set of talking points sent to DHS officials said the media incorrectly labeled the group Patriot Prayer as racists. Officials were also instructed to bring conversations back to the need to preserve law and order: "This is also why we need to stop the violence in our cities. Chaotic and violent situations lead to chaotic, violent and tragic outcomes. Everyone needs law and order." It is unclear whether any of the talking points originated at the White House or within Homeland Security's own press office. ([NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/internal-document-shows-trump-officials-were-told-make-comments-sympathetic-n1241581))

2. **The Department of Agriculture is requiring that all boxes of surplus food sent to needy families across the U.S. include a letter from Trump claiming credit for the program.** The USDA’s $4 billion Farmers to Families Food Box Program redirects millions of boxes of meat, dairy and produce that might normally go to restaurants and other food-service businesses to families in need. The letter comes in English and Spanish on White House letterhead and features Trump's bold signature, along with the following text: "As President, safeguarding the health and well-being of our citizens is one of my highest priorities. As part of our response to coronavirus, I prioritized sending nutritious food from our farmers to families in need throughout America." The Trump administration denies that the move is political or improper, despite outcries from Democrats and questions from ethics groups. ([Politico](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/10/01/trump-letter-food-aid-boxes-424230))

3. **Trump is the "single largest driver of misinformation" about COVID-19**, according to a study by Cornell University. Researchers analyzed 38 million articles about the pandemic in English-language media around the world and found that nearly 38 percent of the overall "misinformation conversation" came from mentions of Trump. The study is the first comprehensive examination of coronavirus misinformation in traditional and online media. The most prevalent topic of misinformation was "miracle cures," including Trump’s promotion of anti-malarial drugs and disinfectants as potential treatments, which accounted for misinformation than the other 10 out of 11 topics combined. ([New York Times](http://))

4. **Moderators at the next presidential debate will be able to turn off the candidates' microphones if they break the rules of the debate.** The Commission on Presidential Debates announced the change in response to Tuesday's performance, during which Trump interrupted Biden or the moderator at least 128 times. The commission said the event "made clear that additional structure should be added to the format of the remaining debates to ensure a more orderly discussion of the issues." The plans have not been finalized and the commission is still considering how it would carry out the plan. ([CBS News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/presidential-debates-rules-changes-cutting-microphones/))

5. **Brad Parscale is leaving the Trump campaign** after he was detained and hospitalized in Florida over the weekend for threatening to harm himself. Parscale serve as Trump's campaign manager until July, and has remained a senior adviser on digital projects for the campaign. Parscale says he is "stepping away from my company and any role in the campaign for the immediate future to focus on my family and get help dealing with the overwhelming stress." ([Axios](https://www.axios.com/brad-parscale-leave-trump-campaign-2afbfcc4-03d8-4f99-844f-34bf3bfe6a6f.html))

6. poll/ **39% of voters said Trump did worse than they expected during the first presidential debate, compared with 13% who said Biden underperformed.** 57% of Republicans and 61% of independents said their primary reaction was disappointment. 37% of Democrats said they walked away angry, compared with 24% of independents and just 9% of Republicans. ([SurveyMonkey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/curiosity/axios-first-debate-2020/))